[DOCS] Kibana 8.19.0 release notes (#227071)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/whats-new.asciidoc

check the <<release-notes, release notes>>.

Previous versions: {kibana-ref-all}/8.18/whats-new.html[8.18] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.17/whats-new.html[8.17] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.16/whats-new.html[8.16] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.15/whats-new.html[8.15] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.14/whats-new.html[8.14] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.13/whats-new.html[8.13] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.12/whats-new.html[8.12] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.11/whats-new.html[8.11] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.10/whats-new.html[8.10] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.9/whats-new.html[8.9] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.8/whats-new.html[8.8] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.7/whats-new.html[8.7] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.6/whats-new.html[8.6] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.5/whats-new.html[8.5] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.4/whats-new.html[8.4] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.3/whats-new.html[8.3] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.2/whats-new.html[8.2] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.1/whats-new.html[8.1] | {kibana-ref-all}/8.0/whats-new.html[8.0]

[discrete]
=== Discover and ES|QL

[discrete]
==== Spot patterns in your logs instantly with ML-powered CATEGORIZE

You can now easily spot patterns in your logs with CATEGORIZE in ES|QL, which automatically groups recurring log patterns and surfaces meaningful insights directly in Discover.

> This ML-powered feature helps you detect anomalies, common error messages, and repeating behavior across large volumes of data without writing complex queries. The new visualization presents patterns in a clear and contextual way, making it easy to scan, interpret, and act on what you see. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ML-powered feature helps you detect anomalies, common error messages, and repeating behavior across large volumes of data without writing complex queries. The new table rendering presents patterns in a clear and contextual way, making it easy to scan, interpret, and act on what you see. 
```
Not sure the best way to phrase this, but the new patterns functionality is mainly related to how pattern columns render within the Discover table vs a visualization (might get confused with the Discover chart above the table, which doesn't change with this feature).

Reviewer 2: Ah, thanks for the clarification!

==== Alerts panel in dashboards

You can now include Alerts tables as panels in dashboards. Alerts panels provide real-time visibility into system-triggered alerts alongside other visualizations. You can correlate alerts with other dashboard components, such as logs, metrics, Discover sessions, or Lens visualizations, without needing to switch contexts.

image::images/alerts_panel_dashboard.png[Alerts panel in Dashboards]

[discrete]
==== Alerts history clean-up available in Technical Preview

You can now manually trigger alerts deletion in bulk. This new feature starts a cleanup task that runs asynchronously in the background. You can specify a threshold for alert age or duration and choose to delete active alerts, inactive alerts, or both. This feature is currently only available under Stack Management.

image::images/cleanup_alerts.png[Alerts history clean-up available in Technical Preview]

[discrete]
==== Maintenance windows public APIs

Maintenance windows now have public HTTP APIs, enabling programmatic management. You can leverage these APIs to perform Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD) operations on maintenance windows, giving you greater control.

[discrete]

> You can now explore Cases data in dashboards and Discover. You can use the new Cases analytics index to build dashboards and visualizations of Cases activities and trends. These data points offer improved visibility into incident management efficiency in Kibana for operation managers.

Author: Need to pull this. Was removed from 8.19/9.1.

cc: @michaelolo24 @paulewing @tiamliu @adcoelho 

```suggestion
```
